Welcome to the last
video of this week.
I'll be talking about GRUs
or Gated Recurrent Units.
This type of model
has some parameters
which allow you to control
how much information
to forget from the past and
how much information to extract
from the current input.
Let's see how you can use GRUs to
keep track of
relevance information.
Here I'm going to introduce
you to Gated Recurrent Units,
GRUs for shorts, with a
comparison to vanilla RNNs.
One important difference is
that GRUs work in a way that
allows relevant information to
be kept in the hidden states,
even over long sequences.
For example, with a GRU,
you'll be able to train a
model that takes the sentence,
ants are really
interesting, blank,
are everywhere and easily
predicts the word,
they, to fill in the blank.
Because the GRU learn to
keep the information
about the subject.
In this case,
whether it is plural
or singular in the hidden states.
GRUs accomplish this by
computing irrelevance
and update gates,
which I'll show you next.
You can think of GRUs as
vanilla RNNs with
additional computations.
They take two inputs
at every time step,
the variable x at time t,
and the hidden state, h,
which is passed from
the previous units.
The first two computations made
in GRU are the relevance gates.
Gamma sub r and the
update gate Gamma sub u.
These gates compute the
sigmoid activation function,
so their result is a vector of
values which have been
squeezed to fits
between zero and one.
The update and relevance gates in
GRUs are the most
important computations.
Their outputs help determine
which information from
the previous hidden
state is relevant and
which values should be updated
with currents information.
After the relevance
gates is computed,
a candidate's h prime for
the hidden state is found.
Its computation
takes as parameters
the previous hidden state
times the relevance gates,
and the variable x
for the current time.
This value stores all
the candidates for
information that's got overwrites
the one contained in the
previous hidden states.
After that, a new value
for the hidden state is
calculated using the information
from the previous hidden state,
the candidate hidden state
and the update gate.
The update gate
determines how much of
the information from
the previous hidden state
will be overwritten.
Finally, a prediction y hat
is computed using the
current hidden state.
Let's compare GRUs
with vanilla RNNs.
Remember that a
vanilla RNN such as
this one computes an
activation function
with the previous
hidden state and
current's variable x as
parameters to get the
current hidden state.
With the current hidden state,
another activation function is
computed to get the
current prediction y hat.
This architecture is updating
the hidden state at
every time step.
So for a long sequences,
the information tends to vanish.
This is one cause of
the so-called vanishing
gradients problem.
On the other hand, GRUs
compute significantly
more operations,
which can cause longer processing
times and memory usage.
The relevance and update gates
determine which information from
the previous hidden state is
relevant and what information
should be updated.
The hidden state candidate stores
the information that could be
used to overwrite the one
passed from the
previous hidden state.
The current hidden
state is computed and
updates some of the information
from the last hidden state.
Any prediction y hat is
made with the updated
hidden states.
All of these computations
allow the network to learn
what type of information to
keep and when to overwrite it.
I just demonstrates how
GRUs decide which of
the information in
the hidden state
to overwrite at each step.
The relevance and updates
gates and GRUs allow models to
keep some values in
the hidden state for a
longer word sequences.
This is very useful
to many NLP tasks.
GRUs are simplified versions
of the popular LSTMs,
which you'll be encountering a
little later in the
specialization.